the most important concept of java programming is knowing Object
what do we mean by object?
we study like object is an instance of a class

now what is an instance?
instance is an example of specific kind or certain type is called as instance.

example:
consider a School environment. we have classrooms, we then inside the classrooms we have students.
let us asssume student names are john,akhil,....
here the entities who are studying in classroom are the instances. (remember john,akhil,.. are not the instances,(you may get doubt that they are also studing in classroom they are also instances right, we will clear this confusion in the later of this file.))
for easy understanding , we can learn as instance is a being very specific of something. we can call that as an instance.

object is like which has properties(class variables) and actions(methods)
if we consider the class in Java , it has class variables and methods , this only the java class contains , this the reason why we say and object is an instance of a  class.

we also have heard like Class is like a blueprint , why do we say this? let us understand?
see we know what a blueprint is all about ,consider we want to construct a building,we dont directly make pillars, walls, room sizes,... first we write it on the paper and then we build it it contains the information only , it exits only on the paper , not in reality.  it becomes reality only we construct that blueprint. similary in java class also is like a blueprint. it does exit until we create a object to it. i,e when we build the building , then it becomes a reality, similary object is like this building and class is like this blueprint. 

earlier i said like john, akhil ... are not instances why?
here building is the object, not the name given to the building is the object , here name given to the building is the reference that is  i,e what we call that building uniquely? is the refernce. 
similarly john , akhil,... are the refernces, the object in the student example is the one entity who is studing,writing exams,.. is the object, it can be akhil, or john or,.... other, what we that call that entity who is studying, reading,writing exams is the referencce, but the object is the one entity(name less ) which performs reading and writing. 

if you did not understand please read this one more time.(once more, once more,....)

till now we have understood theoritically, now practically.
class Student{
    int rollNo;
    String Name,classNo;
    String study(String subject){
        System.out.println("studying");
        return "concept";
    }
    int playing(int energyLevels){
        System.out.println("calories burned , enery levels elevated");
        return caloriesl
    }
    int writeExams(){
        return  examGrade;
    }
}

now the above class is just like blueprint, it does not exits in reality until unless there is an entity which behaves same like above.

Q) how to make it reality?
sol: new keyword in java, is used to allocate the memory in the heap for the class.
we write as                     

                                new Student();

                                this is the object (exisiting in reality)
                                instance of class (example of certain type which is student which performs all the activities of the blueprint)

                    now what do we call this?
                    like how to give the name,id,section,.... to this entity? now comes the reference.
            Student akhil = new Student();
            now akhil is the reference, who can perform all the activities and actions of the class Student().


        new Student() is the object , which exists in the heap memory of the RAM.
        akhil is the reference who can perform all the activities of the Student.
        